hey everyone welcome to the U Channel
today we want to talk about cly
multiplatform and some of the exciting
product from jet brains which recently
released and they are in a public
preview like Amper and Fleet Amper is a
new built system for software
development especially cly multiplatform
on Android we have great deal but it's
kind of complicated to work on that but
we know that it's quite powerful on the
other hand emper tried to provide a
simplified build system for us and as I
said for cly multiplatform which is
quite important and very useful we can
have our project configuration across
different platforms iOS Android web and
jvn which is a big plus for us the other
product I wanted to mention is Fleet I
would say Fleet is a new generation of
IDE for software development the
environment is very simple but so
powerful support so many languages and
we can use it for cly multiplatform as
well first I would like to take a look
at Fleet to see what kind of feature it
provides and then I will use Fleet in
practice by creating a cly multiplatform
project and having the configuration
with Amper so stay
tuned this is the Fleet website you can
download the latest version from here as
you see the environment looks so
simplified and clean and it's totally
different compared to other intell idea
products and as you see here it's
powered by Ai and you can have built-in
AI code completion or some other AI
features and it support different
languages and especially for us
developing cotl multiplatform in some
cases we want to switch between Swift
and cotl this idea support both
languages you can continuously do the
debugging in cotl and Swift which sounds
amazing let's move along with other
features I mentioned earlier it is so
simplified and it's really easy to use
for smaller project or if you have a
bigger project it doesn't matter fit is
the best choice it also has some team
Fork features like having debugging
sessions if you want to do it with your
teammates or having the Cod review
within the ID or just simply pair
programming and some other building
features like multiplatform Dockers
or it also support customized plugins
you can add to the IDE and yes I would
say Fleet is a full package for software
development in any
kind let's take a look at the jetbrain
website to see what is amp Amper is a
tool for project configuration its goal
is to improve project configuration user
experience and tability it support
inside the ID and provide it smooth
outof thee boox experience Amper is a
layer on top of gradeable system it has
its own type of configuration with the
AML files because under the hood is
still used gradal Amper has the same
power like defining customized plugins
or having all those configuration we had
before in grade same in Amper at this
time Amper has two type of configuration
one is Standalone means you only have
yaming files to configure projects and
the other type is something in between
means you still use gradal files and
within your modules you have these kind
of Amper yaml configuration files I'm
going to show you these two type of
Amper configuration in a costly
multiplatform project the first one is
the Standalone example in the root of
the project we have a project. yo we
Define the modules in this file and each
module has its own Amper file
configuration we have Android app IOS
and jvm app and a shared module look at
the Android module configuration it's so
simple we only set three property but
obviously if the project is more complex
these files get bigger but still it's so
simple in this file we need to Define
product product is a type of the module
module is the Android app because this
project is a compos multiplatform it use
dependencies from shared module and the
settings we just set the compost Ena to
have our jetpack compost UI
implementation so let's look at the IOS
app module looks similar we have the
product and the top is IOS app and we
Define the platform and what kind of
architecture we want to support for the
IOS app same for the dependency as
Android roid again here we enable the
compos for having the jetpack compos in
iOS and same for jvm app configuration
share module configuration is a little
bit different but still simple if we
Define the type as a library and what
kind of platform we going to support and
defining the dependency and setting them
exported to have them available in other
modules one thing about dependency
declaration in Amper it's support autoc
completion and it is context aware
depending on which module we are at
least the relevant dependencies like the
section above we can Define platform
specific dependencies as well for
example iOS or jvm or any other platform
we can have in our cutting multiplatform
project and each platform we Define has
its own folder and they can have their
own implementation the in this case we
have a getf actual function and this is
the implementation and the definition is
here which is an expected getfor setting
the other type of Amper configuration is
mixed with Gradle the different here is
we have a settings. Gradle file as you
probably know before in this file we
declare the modules and the plugins and
uh our plugin management and any
repository we want to fetch dependency
all are getting set here the rest is
quite similar let's have a look in the
shared module we have a
moduleo as you see here almost the same
the jvm file IOS app and Android app and
the other thing is we need to have this
graded wrapper file as well as I said
it's quite similar and I already run all
three applications and you can see all
of them run smoothly and there is no
problem with that in general I think
emper is a promising tool for
simplifying the configuration especially
if the project is getting more complex
with the same power of Gradle build
system the other thing I didn't mention
I was showing all these example in the
fleet IDE which is so cool so simplified
and make the development experience much
nicer and we don't have all the options
visible and but it's more powerful as
you may have noticed these two tools I
introduced Fleet and Emperor are not
stable and they are in a public preview
and experimental phase but it's worth
trying to get to know the future plan of
jet Brain Company in my opinion these
tools are so cool and make things so
simplified especially for those people
who want to start software development
they get a positive impression when they
see these nice and simplified tools that
was it for this video hope you found
this video useful I really recommend to
trying out these tools I know they are
not stable and you may face some issues
but worth trying I'm Ali from Theo
Channel I would like to ask you to show
your support by liking this video and if
you have any comments write it down in
the comment section and subscribe to the
channel see you till next video
[Music]